Welcome to JW Broadcasting®
for February 2023!
In January’s program,
we watched Part 1 of the annual meeting.
At the live event,
there was an air of excitement.
The audience was eagerly awaiting
what would be announced next.
And now that same excitement
can be shared with all of you.
Please enjoy.
Well, we always enjoy hearing
from our dear Brother Herd.
So, what’s he going to talk
to us about today?
Well, he is going to talk on the theme
“Are You a Joyful Person?”
Brother Herd, please.
When you think of your brain,
view it as a box that contains
all sorts of information
—good and bad.
When you think of your heart,
view it as a bottle
that contains only good information.
Now listen to this vintage, old, 1950’s
Joy dishwashing liquid soap commercial:
“Joy in a bottle beats anything in a box.”
True joy from the heart
beats a head full of knowledge.
What about it?
Are you a joyful person?
What good is it?
Well, the Bible says:
“A joyful heart
makes for a cheerful countenance.”
And it goes on to say:
“A heart that is joyful
does good to the body.”
How does this work?
At times,
your heart will make you smile
when your body is in pain.
For example,
you pass another person
and he or she says, “How are you?”
You smile and say, “Good.”
Your back, feet, and legs are killing you,
but your heart
won’t let you give a negative answer.
There are other more important reasons
to be joyful.
Here’s one:
Jehovah is a joyful person.
At 1 Timothy 1:11,
he is called “the happy God.”
Now, a synonym is the “joyful” God.
He rejoices in his work.
Well, how do we know that?
Well, look at the 104th Psalm
and verse 31:
“The glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
“Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
Synonyms are having “joy, or delight,”
in his works.
Now, secondly,
Jesus too is a happy worker.
At 1 Timothy chapter 6,
and verses 14 and 15,
he’s called “the happy . . . Potentate.”
Potentate is a powerful ruler.
Yet, he is happy.
It was prophesied of him
at Psalm 40:8:
“To do your will, O my God,
is my delight.”
Now, this means “to please greatly.”
According to John 4:34,
the doing of God’s work was food for him.
It energized him and sustained him.
Doing God’s will was like butter on his bread
and milk in his glass.
Jehovah wants us to rejoice in our work.
Read with me, please,
Ecclesiastes 5:19:
“Also, when the true God gives a man
“riches and material possessions
“along with the ability to enjoy them,
“he should take his reward
“and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.”
Housewives and mothers,
rejoice in your work.
Husbands and fathers,
Single men and women,
rejoice in your work.
Widows and widowers,
Old folks,
rejoice in whatever you’re able to do
—just call it work.
Jehovah wants us to be joyful.
Deuteronomy 16:15
comments this way:
“Jehovah your God will bless . . .
“all that you do,
and you will become nothing but joyful.”
The best fathers are happy fathers.
The best husbands are happy husbands.
The best mothers are happy mothers.
The best children are obedient children
—oops, I mean are happy children.
Singing upbuilding songs produces joy.
Levite males sang at the temple.
However, other singers (men and women)
are spoken of in Scripture.
At Acts 16:25, it says:
“But about the middle of the night,
“Paul and Silas were praying
“and praising God with song,
and the prisoners were listening to them.”
Slaves used to sing while working.
They did this to pass the time
and lift their spirits to the highest joy.
They sang out their struggle
—weariness, loneliness,
sorrow, hope,
and determination for a better life.
You can sing in the shower,
just make sure no one is listening.
Count your blessings.
Bathe in the joy that they bring you.
Joy is an aspect of God’s holy spirit.
It is the second of the nine aspects
mentioned at Galatians 5:22.
Pray daily for God’s holy spirit
to be with you in your life.
Read with me Daniel chapter 6,
and verses 10 and 11:
“But as soon as Daniel knew
that the decree had been signed,
“he went to his house,
“which had the windows of his roof chamber
“open toward Jerusalem.
“And three times a day
“he got down on his knees
“and prayed
“and offered praise before his God,
“as he had regularly done prior to this.
“At that time those men burst in
“and found Daniel petitioning
and pleading for favor before his God.”
My wife, Gloria, and I
used to get down on our knees
to pray before going to bed.
Now that we’re old,
we just sit on the side of the bed and pray.
If we get down, we can’t get up.
Keep in mind
that prayer will produce in you joy.
You’re not alone;
Jehovah is with you.
He is never far away.
At Acts 17:27,
Paul told some in Athens:
“He is not far off from each one of us.”
He can see you
and hear you from heaven,
wherever heaven is located.
Never should we feel that we are alone.
Each minute of every day,
Jehovah is right beside us,
looking for opportunities to help us.
Talk to him regularly.
Ask him to give you joy.
Angels too are joyful.
Luke 15:10 says that they’re joyful.
Please look at it as we read it:
“In the same way, I tell you,
“joy arises among the angels of God
over one sinner who repents.”
What do you think?
Are you a joyful person?
Try to remember the box.
Put your mind to it.
And the bottle—put your heart into it.
Copy as best you can
those who are joyful
—Jehovah, Jesus,
the angels,
your spiritual brothers and sisters.
Pray daily for a joyful countenance.
A warm smile does good to the body.
One secular song makes this point.
I won’t sing it.
I’ll just say it:
“Light up your face with gladness.
“Hide every trace of sadness.
“Although a tear may be ever so near,
“that’s the time you must keep on trying.
“Smile, what’s the use of crying?
“You’ll find that life is still worthwhile
if you just smile.”
If you are a joyful person,
thank Jehovah.
If you are lacking joy,
work on being more joyful.
Remember,
Jehovah wants you to be
nothing but joyful.
Let’s make it our aim
to please him with joy.
Wasn’t that delightful?
Thank you very much, Sam.
That was just wonderful.
Now we’re going to watch two videos.
The first one is going to bring us up-to-date
with the construction projects
that were finished just before COVID began.
But then it’s also going to tell us
of the work that was done
during the COVID outbreak.
Our brothers did not stop working
during the outbreak,
and they were very resourceful.
They did a lot of good things.
So let’s watch this video.
It’s going to be very encouraging.
At Isaiah 40:4, 5,
Jehovah says he would remove
seemingly insurmountable obstacles
so the Jews could return to Jerusalem.
The account says:
“Let every valley be raised up,
“and every mountain and hill be made low.
“The rough ground must become level,
“and the rugged ground a valley plain.
“The glory of Jehovah will be revealed,
“and all flesh will see it together,
for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.”
This inspiring prophecy
was initially fulfilled in 537 B.C.E.
There is nothing that can stand in the way
of what Jehovah wants accomplished.
In this report, we will see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s support
on theocratic projects today
despite a pandemic, supply chain shortages,
and other challenges.
For example,
the February 2020 announcement
featured in the JW Newsroom
informed us
that the Cameroon branch relocation project
finished shortly before the outbreak
of COVID-19.
Just in time, the Bethel family had a home
where they could safely shelter in place
during the pandemic and still care
for the Kingdom work
and more than 48,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
The Argentina Bethel family
also moved into their new branch facility
in Buenos Aires shortly thereafter.
The move, which was organized
in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols,
began in July 2021.
The Bethel family saw numerous examples
of Jehovah leveling out
overwhelming challenges
during the pandemic.
The successful completion
of the new branch facilities
in the midst of that turmoil
has already given
a great witness to the community.
It has allowed the Bethel family to focus
on caring for close to 170,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
What a blessing to have these new facilities
to support the Kingdom preaching work!
What about projects happening right now?
Listen closely as we hear updates
from brothers in Italy,
Congo, and Angola.
The Italy branch is relocating its facilities
to the city of Bologna in northern Italy,
which is located about 370 kilometers,
or 230 miles, from Rome.
Initially, the Construction Project Committee
wanted to use our brothers and sisters
as volunteers.
However, at a certain point, it was decided
to rely on an outside development company,
both for the design and renovation
of the office building that was purchased
as well as for the design and construction
of the residential buildings.
When this decision was made,
we did not imagine
that a few months afterward
we would not be able to use our volunteers
because at the beginning of 2020,
COVID-19 struck northern Italy,
including the city of Bologna.
As a consequence, the government
suspended activities, including construction.
After about one month,
they lifted the restrictions.
And as a result,
we could get back in touch with the companies
and continue the work
while respecting government protocol
and direction from our organization.
Thanks to Jehovah’s direction,
despite the pandemic,
we are happy to see how this project
is moving forward
much faster than we expected.
And we look forward to being able
to move into these new buildings
by the end of 2024.
In 2012, we had a little over
168,000 publishers in our branch territory.
By the end of 2021,
the total number of publishers grew
to more than 209,000 publishers.
Because it was impractical
to expand the branch facility in Kinshasa,
we looked for property
that could care for the immediate
and future needs of the branch.
We purchased property
in the country’s second-largest city,
Lubumbashi,
where a developer
was already building housing
and office units.
The developer already had
the zoning, permits,
and completed design packages.
This saved much time
and allowed the project to move ahead
with minimal disruption
even during the pandemic,
and we were happy for that.
For the internal work of the new offices,
we needed a contractor
who could design and install
to the standards of our organization
and within the project budget.
We knew this would be hard to find in Congo
—and even harder
with the limitations of the pandemic.
One of the suppliers that we use
for food and relief supplies in the area
mentioned to us
that they have a partner company
who specializes in construction
and is newly active in the country.
We didn’t expect
that the answer to this challenge
would come from this unusual direction.
But we were surprised to find
that they did in fact qualify
to meet the high standards and expectations
of such a branch project.
As the relationship grew, we saw
fine collaboration between our teams,
and they continue to work along with us
now as the project expands.
We truly have seen
Jehovah smoothing out the path
for this project.
We have already started moving
some Bethelites to this new site
and look forward to the project’s completion
in mid-2024.
In December 2021,
a building was purchased that will provide
additional rooms and offices
for the Bethel family at our branch.
This building is located
about a ten-minute walk
from the current Bethel facility.
Because of the restrictions
imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic,
the entire process
for the acquisition of this building,
even including the verification
of the legal aspects,
had to be done by videoconference.
During the last week
of the negotiation process
when there were just five days remaining
to sign the purchase and sale agreement
and during a stage
in which the negotiation team
from the branch and the seller
had already agreed
on the purchase and sale price,
we discovered that the structure
of the building needed some repairs
and reinforcement in some areas.
How did the team negotiating the purchase
handle this obstacle?
The seller was asked
to take responsibility for the repairs
and to reinforce the building’s structure,
closely following the engineering details
that would be provided by the branch.
After several prayers
by the branch’s negotiation team,
the seller accepted the responsibility
and even paid for all the expenses
involved in this repair.
The repair was completed.
And shortly after,
the work to completely renovate the building
began.
We look forward to seeing
some of the Bethel family
move into this new building in early 2024.
In addition to these new branch facilities,
we also have many other needs to fill.
For example, in order to train
brothers and sisters
to carry out the preaching and teaching work,
there continues to be a need
for theocratic school facilities.
In Madagascar,
the branch hosted classes at Bethel
because they didn’t have
any other suitable facilities.
Well, in June 2021,
they finished construction
of a new school facility
and will now be able to schedule
up to four classes there each year.
Currently,
there are over 40 existing school facilities
and we have around 20
active school facility projects
at various stages of development.
What about facilities to support
the growing media production
of the organization?
We’re happy to report
that we have finished the studio projects
at the South Africa and Australasia branches.
In Australasia,
that includes the backlot that is used
for The Good News According to Jesus
video series.
Soon, if Jehovah wills,
we will begin construction
on the new site in Ramapo, New York.
We look forward to seeing how Jehovah
uses this facility
to care for the needs of his people.
It is clear that neither the pandemic
nor ongoing turmoil in this world
has been able to stop
theocratic building projects.
And as world conditions
continue to deteriorate,
we are confident
that the words of Isaiah 40:4, 5
will be true for us.
Yes, Jehovah will help us overcome
any mountainlike obstacles that we face.
We earnestly pray for Jehovah to bless these
and future building projects.
And we thank you dear brothers and sisters
for supporting them by means of your prayers,
skills, time, and resources.
May all praise and glory
go to our great God, Jehovah,
who continues to clear the way for us!
Jehovah’s hand is never short.
Well, the next part is a video entitled
Patterson Visitors’ Center Update.
Try saying that fast three times.
That was a mouthful
—Patterson Visitors’ Center Update.
This is about more
than just a visitors’ center
where people can come to wait
their turn to tour Bethel.
You’re going to see
that there are some surprises
waiting for us in this visitors’ center.
Let’s watch.
Planning for the new
Patterson Visitors’ Center began in 2018.
A project development group was formed
with the goal of starting construction,
but unforeseen challenges
were about to occur.
In March of 2020,
an outbreak of COVID-19
in the New York area
caused Bethel to go into a full lockdown.
How did the design group
see Jehovah’s blessing on the project
during this unprecedented time?
Well, when Bethel locked down
and suspended in-person meetings,
so did the town of Patterson.
This created a serious challenge
for us to obtain the necessary approvals
and to keep the project moving forward.
So with the threat of falling months behind,
we had to rely on Jehovah
and alter our approach.
So a local elder was given permission
to attend the town planning board meetings
in person once they opened up.
He allowed us, as a design team,
to make a presentation
effectively but remotely.
We saw Jehovah’s hand
and his blessing on this entire arrangement.
So through months of meetings,
we were able to get the approvals needed
and then get a building permit
to begin construction
—all of this taking place
during the lockdown!
Following all the local guidelines,
the branch found a way
to bring skilled brothers and sisters
into the “Bethel bubble” safely
so they could work on the project.
Jehovah caused many volunteers
to “offer themselves willingly” to help.
Here we are,
building the Patterson Visitors’ Center
during a most unique time in history,
in the midst of a global pandemic.
The brotherhood
has demonstrated ‘a heart for the work’
through contributions
and brothers and sisters
offering their skills
—some of which are quite unique.
It’s so encouraging to see
how Jehovah has come to our aid
with supply issues
and how Bethel departments have cooperated
and provided skilled people to help us.
It’s been so encouraging.
All involved have seen Jehovah’s hand
guiding the way
through these challenging circumstances.
But some may wonder,
‘At a time when guests
are not allowed on Bethel property,
why is this visitors’ center
so important to Jehovah?’
The physical buildings
at Bethel are attractive,
but what’s more valuable to Jehovah
is what happens inside.
It’s the spiritual gift that he has in store
for all who come to visit
that is so important.
The Patterson Visitors’ Center is designed
to be an immersive
theocratic experience for everyone.
The Patterson Visitors’ Center
will feature three museums
and a coin display.
Our feature museum
will be a first-century Bible village.
The objective is to educate visitors
about what life was like in the first century
and thereby bring Bible accounts to life.
You will get a sense of what things were like
when Jesus walked the earth.
Since the Israelites lived off the land,
the experience begins
with an overview of the annual crop cycles
that formed the core
of so much of their daily activities.
Key agricultural tasks, such as threshing,
winnowing, and grinding grain,
will be illustrated
with interactive displays.
We know you will find the exhibit components,
like the functioning
olive press and wine press,
very interesting and informative.
The next stop will be
a typical first-century market.
Here you will see some of the food and goods
that would have been available
depending on the season of the year.
We next invite you
into the residence and workshop spaces
of a typical first-century Israelite family.
The manger,
carpentry shop,
weaving and fabric dying displays
will illustrate
a number of Israelite activities.
The residence courtyard area
will show other regular home tasks
like grain grinding and basket making.
We next invite you
into a typical Israelite home
and out onto a rooftop
overlooking the rest of the village.
Before you leave the residences,
you will also see an upper room
that would have been
in some of the Israelite homes.
The next area
of the first-century Bible village
that you can explore is the synagogue,
which was the center of worship and study
in the Jewish community.
Next, a functioning pottery wheel and kiln
will illustrate how pottery was made.
The last stop will take you to a lakeside
where you will be able
to board a first-century fishing boat
similar to the one
that Jesus and his disciples used.
Here you can learn what was involved
in commercial fishing.
This and so much more
is waiting for you
at the new Patterson Visitors’ Center.
We can’t wait for you to come and see
the beautiful spiritual gift
that is waiting for you!
The new visitors’ center and museum
are on course to be completed
in the fall of 2023.
When will guests be able to come back
to Bethel and tour the new facility?
We are going to have to wait and see.
But one thing is for sure:
When the doors finally do open,
anyone who makes the effort to come
will receive a spiritual gift from Jehovah.
The touring experience
will prove to be a spiritual encouragement
to the worldwide brotherhood
and promote pure worship
to Jehovah’s praise and honor
in a very unique way.
It will certainly be a must-see.
Well, we’ve seen
the blessings on this project
and, really, all the people
working hard on it.
The facility is going to benefit
thousands of future visitors.
It’s because all of us,
either now or in the new world,
need to be taught
about the life and ministry of Jesus.
For this reason, we’re convinced
of Jehovah’s blessing on the project
and his desire to have this facility built.
It’s Jehovah’s desire
that people come to his house
and be refreshed and educated.
It is our prayer
that this new and thrilling visitors’ center
will accomplish that.
Guests will come, they will be upbuilt,
and they will draw closer to Jehovah God.
I’m sure we can hardly wait
to go through that new visitors’ center.
I know I can hardly wait.
Now we’re going to enjoy
two talks on very encouraging themes.
The first is by Brother Kenneth Cook.
His subject is
“The Earth That Will Endure Forever.”
Brother Cook, please.
In the Revelation presented
to the apostle John,
Jesus pointed ahead many centuries
to the time when Jehovah brings an end
to those who oppose his Kingdom.
At Revelation 11:18,
it speaks of such opposers
as “those ruining the earth.”
In its entirety, the verse says this
at Revelation 11:18:
“But the nations became wrathful,
“and your own wrath came,
“and the appointed time came
for the dead to be judged
“and to reward your slaves the prophets
and the holy ones
“and those fearing your name,
the small and the great,
“and to bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
This verse assures us
that Jehovah is going to stop
the ruining of the earth.
But is it only man’s pollution of the earth
and the misuse of its resources
that is being spoken of here?
Or is there more to it?
To answer those questions,
here are four main points
that we will consider:
What is “the earth”
as spoken of in God’s Word?
To what “ruining” of it
does Revelation 11:18 refer?
When will Jehovah act to stop it?
And what is the earth
that will endure forever?
So, to start, what is meant by “earth”?
To answer that question,
we’ll look at the planet
and the people.
Why do we include the people?
Because “earth,” like some other expressions
in God’s Word,
has more than one basic meaning.
Consider the word “heaven.”
“Heaven” has the sense
of that which is high, or lofty,
and it can refer to a number of things.
For example, at Genesis 27:28,
we read of Isaac’s blessing for Jacob.
He told him in part:
“May the true God give you
the dews of the heavens.”
“The dews of the heavens”
—here “heavens” has
the meaning of “literal sky,” true?
But now compare Daniel 4:26.
In this verse, we read
that Daniel interprets Nebuchadnezzar’s dream
regarding the great tree, and he says to him:
“Your kingdom will be yours again
“after you come to know that the heavens
are ruling.”
Clearly, this is not the literal sky, is it?
But it has reference
to Jehovah’s sovereignty.
Likewise, in the Bible,
the word “earth”
can have more than one meaning.
First, let’s look at the planet.
Unlike the planets
that have been named after false gods,
Genesis chapter 1 tells us
that Jehovah named this planet “Earth.”
As for the false labeling
of the other planets,
we can be certain that those disgusting names
will soon be gone.
But as for the earth, Jehovah leaves us
in no doubt about its future.
It was created to last forever.
Ecclesiastes 1:4 states
that although generations of people
at this time come and go,
“the earth,” it says
—that is, the planet—
“remains forever.”
Psalm 104:5 adds
that “it will not be moved from its place
forever and ever.”
So, then, the planet Earth
will never be destroyed.
God’s purpose for it will be fulfilled.
What is that purpose?
God’s purpose
is for the earth to be inhabited
by faithful humans
in perfection and happiness
with everlasting life.
That brings us to the people,
those for whom the earth was made.
You can hardly mention one
without the other, right?
For instance, many scriptures refer to people
when speaking of the earth.
Here are some examples.
Genesis 11:1 says: “Now all the earth
continued to be of one language.”
At Genesis 24:3,
Abraham refers to Jehovah as being
“the God of the earth,” obviously people.
Isaiah 49:13 says:
“Shout for joy, you heavens,
and rejoice, you earth.”
And Revelation 19:2 speaks of false religion
as “the great prostitute corrupted the earth
with her sexual immorality.”
Clearly, those verses refer to humans
who can speak,
who can worship, who can express joy,
and who can be corrupted
by sexual immorality.
Up to this point,
we’ve looked at the earth then as a planet,
we have reviewed God’s purpose for it,
and we have considered how the word “earth”
relates to the people on it.
Now let’s consider the question,
To what “ruining”
does Revelation 11:18 refer?
To the planet?
The people?
Or both?
First, the planet:
Jehovah hates to see the earth
being ruined today as it is.
And we can be certain
that he hates the pollution,
the damage to the earth’s climate,
the misuse of its resources,
and the devastation of human wars.
Jehovah cares for what he has made.
After making the earth,
he said “that it was good.”
We can read about it
in Genesis chapters 1 and 2.
Imagine Jehovah’s happiness!
This special planet was to be a gift.
Psalm 115:16 states
that “the earth he has given
to the sons of men.”
So, then, what about the people?
Does Jehovah’s disgust
at the ruining of the earth apply
to the ruining of mankind as well?
Yes!
We can see this from what is stated
at Genesis 6:11, 12.
In this setting, the world of Noah’s day
had become ruined in God’s eyes.
And as we read the verses,
look for the connection
between the earth and mankind.
It says at Genesis chapter 6,
starting in verse 11:
“But the earth had become ruined
in the sight of the true God,
“and the earth was filled with violence.
“Yes, God looked upon the earth,
and it was ruined;
all flesh had ruined its way on the earth.”
Do you see the connection?
Rather than speaking of just the planet,
the scriptures here link
the ruining of “all flesh,” or people,
with the ruining of the earth.
Likewise today, just as mankind
is harming the actual planet,
the world under Satan’s control
is also ruining all flesh.
In both ways, the earth is being ruined.
How so?
Along with false religion,
human society in general
is gradually corrupting everything
that Jehovah has set in place for mankind.
We see it
in their incessant nationalistic wars.
in their racial hatred and divisiveness.
We see it in their promoting of abortion.
We see it in their so-called gay marriage.
We see it in the gender blurring
that the world is promoting.
“You don’t have to be a man or a woman,”
they say.
“You can be whatever you feel like
or choose to be.”
Really?
What does Jehovah say about that?
At Deuteronomy 22:5,
he told the nation of Israel
that “a woman must not
put on the clothing of a man,
“nor should a man wear
the clothing of a woman.
“For anyone doing so is detestable
to Jehovah your God.”
If that is how the Creator feels
about the switching of clothing,
how much more detestable
he must view the world’s attempts
to blur the lines of gender
with false labeling!
Recently, the World Health Organization
adjusted its view of gender.
It now states that “there are many genders
existing on a spectrum from male to female.”
It added that “gender identity
“exists on a continuum
and that sex
is not limited to male or female.”
Again, really?
Talk about an attempt to tear apart
what Jehovah has made!
So, then, even government agencies
on a global scale are getting involved,
and they are critical of anyone
who does not adopt their warped view.
At Proverbs 19:3, it explains:
“It is a man’s own foolishness
that distorts his way,
and his heart
becomes enraged against Jehovah.”
And going back to marriage,
Jehovah instituted the arrangement
to be a permanent bond
between a man and a woman.
At Matthew 19:4, 5,
we read how Jesus emphasized this
while he was on the earth.
Quoting from Genesis 2:24, he said this:
“Have you not read that the one
who created them from the beginning
“made them male and female and said:
“‘For this reason a man
will leave his father and his mother
“‘and will stick to his wife,
and the two will be one flesh’?”
He “made them male and female . . . ,
and the two will be one flesh.”
Jehovah’s purpose for humans is clear.
But Satan’s world now says that marriage
can be between two men or two women.
Again, really?
We can be certain
that promoting this corrupt view
is part of Satan’s attempt to ruin mankind
—to make them so abhorrent to Jehovah
that he would abandon humans
and his purpose for mankind on the earth.
But that will never happen.
God’s purpose for mankind and their home
will be fulfilled.
Just like the disgusting names
of the false gods
that humans have given
to the literal planets,
the false labeling of humankind
and the immorality will not continue.
For his own name’s sake
and for those who love him,
Jehovah will “bring to ruin
those ruining the earth.”
Well, it’s one thing
to consider Jehovah’s view
on such matters among ourselves.
But what are we doing to help other people?
What are we doing to build respect
for Jehovah’s view of the earth,
Jehovah’s view of humankind,
and Jehovah’s purpose for their future?
Well, with a clear conscience,
we can confidently say
that we’ve “not held back”
in speaking the truth about such matters.
For example, here are some of the articles
on jw.org that honesthearted ones can read.
For instance,
“What Does the Bible Say About Abortion?,”
“Does the Bible Comment
on Same-Sex Marriages?,”
and “How Can I Explain the Bible’s View
of Homosexuality?”
We should be happy to have such tools
to help other people.
So, then, what is more important to Jehovah?
The literal planet or the people?
Both are highly valued,
and that is why both will endure forever.
But the people of the earth
are far more important.
Jehovah gave his Son as a ransom for mankind,
not for a planet.
John 3:16 says
that “God loved the world so much
“that he gave his only-begotten Son,
“so that every one exercising faith in him
“might not be destroyed
but have everlasting life.”
And of Jesus, God’s “master worker,”
Proverbs 8:31 quotes him as saying:
“I rejoiced over his habitable earth,
and I was especially fond
of the sons of men.”
Knowing this, what should we continue to do?
Well, we should kindly and respectfully
help others to see Jehovah’s view
while there is still time.
We must never
become “ashamed of the good news,”
for it’s not just good news about Paradise.
It’s also good news about Jehovah’s time
to set things right on earth again.
Parents with young children
should take courage
from this fact as they work hard
to protect their children
from Satan’s attempts
to ruin their minds and hearts
with immoral thoughts and false reasoning.
Thankfully, the end is coming quickly.
Please notice what is said
at Revelation chapter 14
and verses 6 and 7.
And as we read it,
look for what an angel includes
in the good news that he declares.
It says, in part—
Revelation chapter 14,
verses 6 and 7 says:
“He had everlasting good news to declare
to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.
“He was saying in a loud voice:
“‘Fear God and give him glory,
“‘because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived,
“‘so worship the One
who made the heaven and the earth
and the sea and the springs of water.’”
So, then, what does the angel
include in his message,
in his good news that he is declaring?
“Fear God,” he said, “and give him glory,
because the hour of judgment
by him has arrived.”
For those who love what is right,
that is truly good news.
And we’re happy to include
this angelic message
in what we share with other people.
God’s Word assures us
at Acts 17:31
that Jehovah “has set a day
on which he purposes to judge
the inhabited earth in righteousness”
by means of his Son.
What a relief and peace
that will bring to those
who want to please Jehovah!
Well, in this talk,
we have examined what is meant
when the Bible speaks of “the earth,”
that is, the planet and the people
for whom it was made.
We have also considered the fact
that the earth
is being ruined in more ways
than just the corrupting of its environment
and the misuse of its resources.
It goes far beyond that, doesn’t it?
Satan and his world are also attempting
to ruin Jehovah’s human creation
in every way possible,
but they will fail.
Since Jehovah gave his Son
to save faithful humans
and to restore his purpose,
our next question is, When will it happen?
When will Jehovah bring to ruin
those ruining the earth?
Well, the answer to that question is soon,
very soon.
The ruining of mankind in their home
will not be allowed to go on.
Let no one be mistaken about it.
Jehovah is resolved.
“He is patient . . .
He does not desire anyone to be destroyed.”
But he is determined; his “day is coming.”
Second Peter 3:13 assures us
that “there are new heavens and a new earth
that we are awaiting
according to his promise.”
That promised “new earth”
is a new human society
that will worship and serve
the only true God forever.
Those who persist in ruining the earth
will not be a part of it.
At Matthew 19:28,
Jesus speaks of this coming change
as a time of “re-creation.”
The study note for that verse
says that re-creation
means “regeneration; [or] renewal.”
It then adds that the re-creation is
“the time when the rule of Christ
and his corulers
“will bring to the earth
a renewal of the perfect conditions
enjoyed by the first humans
before they sinned.”
That’s wonderful to think about!
The re-creation will set things straight
after a failed rebellion.
It will fulfill Jehovah’s purpose
for the earth.
So, then, what is “the earth”
that is being ruined today?
As we have discussed,
it is the planet
and the people being corrupted
by Satan’s world.
But what is “the earth”
that will endure forever?
First, the planet.
As we have read, the Scriptures are clear
that it will last forever.
Next, and most important,
the people are “the new earth,”
those for whom Jesus died
and who respond to the good news.
The re-creation is coming.
Jesus will not waste
a single day of the thousand years,
not one day of it.
He’s determined to honor Jehovah
and accomplish His purpose for the earth.
The future is not complicated.
Jehovah’s purpose is not hard to understand.
The coming time of re-creation
will bring about a rejuvenated earth,
a rejuvenated planet,
filled with perfect people
who love and serve Jehovah together.
That is the earth that will endure forever.
We appreciated that encouragement very much.
Thank you, Ken.
Now, on another positive note,
let’s listen as our brother,
Mark Sanderson, speaks to us on the subject
“Share It With the Generation to Come.”
Mark, please.
At Matthew 13:52,
Jesus said that “every public instructor”
was like a man with a “treasure store”
filled with truths, old and new.
Well, we know that’s true.
And if it’s true,
it means that this audience
is among the most rich people
in the entire world.
You have a large ‘treasure store
of truths both old and new.’
But here’s the question,
What will you do with your treasure store?
Now, at Deuteronomy 29:29,
Moses gave these words;
he said: “The things concealed
belong to Jehovah our God,
“but the things revealed belong to us
“and [and]
“to our descendants forever,
“so that we may carry out all the words
of this Law.”
Well, there’s a fundamental truth there.
You see, the truth
never solely belongs to us.
But, rather,
it also belongs to our descendants
—to all of our sons and daughters
who are to come.
Well, that means
that as men and women of faith,
we have a clear responsibility
to share
(to pass on)
the wonderful truths
that we have come to know
with the next generation.
Well, the Bible emphasizes this.
Let’s read what the psalmist said
in Psalm 78:3.
Psalm 78:3 says:
“The things we have heard and know,
“which our fathers have related to us,
“we will not hide from their sons;
“we will relate to the generation to come
“the praiseworthy deeds of Jehovah
and his strength,
the wonderful things he has done.”
Well, now this includes
more than just the basic truths.
It also includes all of the wonderful things
that we’ve been taught
by other brothers and sisters,
all the experiences that we’ve had,
and experiencing
the hand of Jehovah in our own lives.
Well, Jehovah took the matter
of passing this on
to the next generation very seriously,
because look at what it says in verse 5.
It says: “He established a reminder in Jacob
“and set a law in Israel;
“He commanded our forefathers
“to make these things
known to their children,
“so that the next generation,
“the children yet to be born,
might know them.
They in turn
would relate them to their children.”
Well, brothers and sisters,
especially those of you
who have so much wisdom and experience,
do you feel that responsibility to share
what you have with the generations to come?
Well, if we get the sense
of Deuteronomy 29:29
and Psalm 78,
well then, we will do this.
We will share what we have
with the next generation.
But how do we do it?
Well, of course, this process begins
with all of our parents,
by their following the command
in Deuteronomy 6:6, 7
to teach their children
as ‘they sit in the house,
as they walk on the road,
when they lie down, and when they get up.’
But the process does not end
with the Christian parents.
We also have a responsibility
to teach and train young adults
so that they can take on responsibility
in Jehovah’s congregation.
Now, the Bible is filled
with examples of individuals
who are wonderful trainers.
Maybe one who comes to mind
right away is Moses.
It seems that in the Bible,
whenever you see Moses, you see Joshua.
They’re always together.
Can you imagine the wonderful training
that Moses was able to impart to Joshua
as they worked together
for more than 40 years?
Moses not only told Joshua
but also he showed him.
And by being with him,
he was able to observe his fine example.
Well, when the time was ready,
when Moses was ready
to hand over the responsibility,
notice what he says here
at Deuteronomy chapter 31
and verse 7.
It says: “Moses then called Joshua
“and said to him
before the eyes of all Israel:
‘‘‘Be courageous and strong,
‘‘‘for you are the one
who will bring this people
‘‘‘into the land that Jehovah
swore to their forefathers to give to them,
‘‘‘and you will give it to them
as an inheritance.
‘‘‘Jehovah is the one marching before you,
‘‘‘and he will continue with you.
‘‘‘He will neither desert you
nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.’”
Well, can you imagine
how Moses must have felt
to say those words to this young man
whom he had worked so hard
all of these years with?
Well, that’s not the only example
that is in the Scriptures.
What about Paul and Timothy?
We know that Timothy
was probably in his late teens or early 20’s
when Paul met him at Lystra.
What did Paul do?
He took that young man
along with him on his tours,
going from congregation to congregation.
He put him in the mind of his methods.
He taught him.
And as a result, Timothy came to be
a solid, mature Christian man
who was able to strengthen
the congregations of God’s people.
Do you remember what Paul said about him
in Philippians chapter 2?
It’s quite a recommendation.
At Philippians 2:20,
Paul said:
“For I have no one else
of a disposition like his
who will genuinely care for your concerns.”
What a tremendous recommendation!
But because Paul had invested
that time into Timothy,
he knew the fine qualities
that young man had.
Well, Paul not only wanted Timothy
to take that training himself
but you’ll recall that in 2 Timothy chapter 2
he gave advice to Timothy
as to what he was to do
with all of that fine training
that he had received.
At 2 Timothy 2:2, Paul said:
“And the things you heard from me
“that were supported by many witnesses,
“these things entrust to faithful men,
“who, in turn, will be adequately qualified
to teach others.”
So that training
would go on to future brothers
and future generations
of servants of Jehovah.
Paul invested training in a very young man,
and it paid off.
In our modern day,
I think of Brother Nathan Knorr
as an outstanding trainer.
When he became the president
of the Watch Tower Society
in January of 1942,
he was only 36 years old.
Now he could have thought: ‘I’m so young.
‘I have a huge—
‘I have many, many years ahead of me
to be able to care for matters.
And so there really isn’t
any need to train others.’
But Brother Knorr
did not have that disposition.
He was a trainer even at that young age.
He assigned Brother Milton Henschel,
who was in his mid-20’s,
to be his secretary.
Brother Knorr took Brother Henschel with him
on his travels all over the world
to branches and missionary homes
to strengthen the brothers.
He had him right by his side
at major conventions,
not just telling him
but showing him how to take the lead.
And Brother Henschel absorbed that training.
By 1947, he was a member
of the board of directors
of the Watch Tower Society
at only 27 years old.
And he went on to serve
as a member of the Governing Body.
Brother Knorr trained
other young brothers like Don Adams.
This photo that we’re about to show
was taken at a gathering
on Brother Adams’ 70th anniversary
in full-time service.
Now, here you see
another group of young men
that Brother Knorr had trained
—Robert Wallen, Charles Molohan,
David Sinclair, and Don Adams.
All of these men were identified
when they were very young,
and they worked together
for more than 50 years faithfully.
Jehovah helped Brother Knorr
to choose very well.
But it didn’t end there.
Brother Knorr also appointed
well-qualified young brothers
who were Gilead graduates
to assignments with great responsibility.
For example,
Brother Kenneth Little was assigned
to be the branch servant in Canada
when he was 34 years old.
Brother Denton Hopkinson
was assigned as the branch servant
in the Philippines
when he was 33 years old,
and Brother Richard Kelsey
was assigned
as the branch servant in Germany
when he was 38.
When appointed, Brother Kelsey
said to Brother Knorr, “But I’m only 38.”
And Brother Knorr said,
“Well, yeah, that’s about the age I was
when I became president.”
Brother Knorr once again had chosen well.
Those last three brothers
are all still serving
on the branch committees
in their respective lands and are all members
of the Watch Tower Bible
and Tract Society of Pennsylvania
who are tied in today for this meeting.
Isn’t that wonderful?
But there’s a lesson here, brothers.
There’s a lesson:
Brother Knorr expressed confidence
in humble young brothers.
He allowed them to take on responsibility,
and that proved to be a wonderful blessing
for Jehovah’s people.
Well, what’s the lesson, then, for elders,
for circuit overseers,
for branch committee members
—really, for all mature brothers
in the congregation?
We must actively be training and teaching
the next generation of ministerial servants,
the next generation of elders,
the next generation of circuit overseers.
And we must take
this responsibility seriously
because the truth belongs not just to us.
It also belongs to our sons,
to our descendants.
We must pass on the truth, the wisdom,
the experience that we have
in our treasure store
to these next “Joshuas,”
these next “Timothys”
that Jehovah will raise up.
But now, that’s the role of the trainers.
What is the role of you younger brothers
who are listening to this program?
Well, it’s your responsibility to work hard
to meet the Scriptural qualifications
for ministerial servants
and later for elders.
Seek out training.
Ask for advice.
Ask for counsel.
Be eager to learn from older brothers
who are rich in wisdom and experience.
Now, to help you grow,
those brothers may give you some counsel.
They may even correct you from time to time.
Will you love them for doing that?
Like Jacob, who wrestled with an angel
to receive a blessing,
you too may have to wrestle.
You may have to struggle at times
to get that blessing, to reach that goal.
But if you work hard
and if you look to Jehovah for his help,
you will grow spiritually.
You will draw close to him.
And who knows
what responsibilities may come to you?
What is the Governing Body doing
to support efforts to train young brothers?
Well, in January of this year,
the Governing Body requested
all bodies of elders worldwide
to give priority
to helping younger brothers
grow in their relationship
with Jehovah
and to qualify
for congregation responsibilities.
Elders and circuit overseers
were reminded
that young brothers
who apply themselves
may qualify as ministerial servants
in their late teens
and that an exceptional ministerial servant
who has gained experience
in shepherding and teaching
could serve as an elder in his early 20’s.
Now, here’s another arrangement
that we have not publicly announced before,
but we will today.
Circuit overseers have also been informed
that they may invite qualified young brothers
between the ages of 21 and 23
to apply to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Please don’t all call
your circuit overseer at once.
But the efforts do not end there.
Jehovah willing, in January 2023,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
will again begin functioning
in person worldwide.
And as we resume
in-person regional conventions,
just imagine the joy that we’ll have
in seeing younger brothers get up
and give their first talk
at a regional convention.
Won’t that be wonderful?
Are you looking forward to it?
But the Governing Body
has another new initiative.
Governing Body members
will now have the possibility
to take a younger brother along with them
when they make
shepherding visits to the branches,
and appointed Governing Body helpers
who are headquarters representatives
will also be allowed
to take a younger brother with them
when they make their branch visits.
These arrangements will allow many brothers
to receive additional training
directly from Governing Body members
and helpers.
Well, what have we discussed
in this brief talk?
Jehovah has allowed us to know the truth.
He’s allowed us to be trained.
He’s allowed us
to gain wisdom and experience
from other experienced brothers and sisters.
What now is our responsibility?
Well, let’s read it in Psalm 71,
because the psalmist put it
so beautifully here
at Psalm 71:17:
“O God, you have taught me from my youth,
“and until now I keep declaring
“your wonderful works.
“Even when I am old and gray,
O God, do not abandon me.
“Let me tell the next generation
“about your power and about your mightiness
to all those who are to come.”
Dear brothers, please let us work hard
to share the wonderful truths,
the experience, the wisdom
that we have gained
with the generation to come.
That certainly does meet a need, doesn’t it?
Very, very nice.
Thank you, Mark.
Now, how did you feel during the pandemic
when you watched videos on JW Broadcasting
of happy brothers and sisters
going from door to door
and doing cart work
and conducting Bible studies?
It made me kind of sad
because I wanted to do that too,
but we couldn’t because of the pandemic.
Well, now we have access
to all of our features of the ministry.
So I don’t think any of us are going to be
sad when watching the next video.
It is going to trace the history
of our preaching activity
from 1919.
It’s great!
One hundred years ago,
when our brothers and sisters were invited
to the 1922 Cedar Point, Ohio, convention,
they were very excited.
Why?
You see, just three years earlier,
they had been energized
by a newly organized approach
to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
The Bible Students’ convention in 1919
launched a door-to-door campaign
to obtain subscriptions
to the newly released Golden Age  magazine.
Later that year,
a Service Director was appointed
for each group of Bible Students.
Now they had clear direction
in following Jesus’ command to preach.
That convention was considered
by many who were there
to be “the greatest ever held”
up to that time.
So imagine their anticipation
when the announcement was made
of another convention in 1922!
What would it bring?
Would there be other exciting announcements?
Everywhere around the grounds,
you’d see the big capital letters
ADV, ADV, ADV.
Everybody thought, ‘What is ADV?’
Many were guessing this and guessing that.
Behold, the King reigns!
You are his publicity agents.
Therefore advertise,
advertise,
advertise, the King and his Kingdom.
Well there wasn’t a dry eye in the audience.
Everybody was crying.
Everybody was waving their handkerchiefs
and talking to whoever was sitting by
whether they knew them or not.
Now more than just Bible students,
they were becoming
an organization of preachers.
What would the call to ‘advertise the King
and his Kingdom’ lead to?
What unique and innovative methods
would Jehovah’s people use?
The next 100 years would tell the story.
In 1922,
J.F. Rutherford began using
the new technology of radio broadcasting
to reach a global audience
with the Kingdom message.
At its peak in 1933,
radio broadcasts originating
from our own WBBR studios in New York
were carried by 408 radio stations
on six continents.
But because of clergy interference,
the commercial radio industry
gradually denied access to the airwaves.
Did opposition stop Jehovah’s people
from advertising the Kingdom good news?
What additional preaching methods were used?
A unified, consistent message
about the Kingdom was achieved
through the use of testimony cards
in several languages.
A publisher would simply hand the card
to the householder
and ask him to read the brief Bible message.
Another exciting application of technology
was the use of the portable phonograph
for house-to-house preaching.
To expand this initiative,
in 1937 at the Columbus, Ohio, convention,
the special pioneer work was introduced.
Special pioneers were encouraged
to use the phonograph,
not only when invited into a house,
but at every house.
During the 1939 service year,
300 special pioneers set up the phonographs
over half a million times,
playing the prerecorded,
four-and-half-minute talks
by Brother Rutherford
to over one million listeners!
Other Kingdom publishers
thus became “phonograph-minded,”
and eventually,
over 47,000 portable phonographs
with records covering 92 topics
trumpeted the Kingdom message.
Determined to preach from the housetops,
zealous Kingdom publishers
amplified their ministry
with transcription machines that broadcast
Brother Rutherford’s full-length,
prerecorded lectures.
A transcription machine was a phonograph
equipped with powered loudspeakers.
This made possible
sound cars and sound boats.
The Kingdom message
was clearly heard on rivers, on streets,
in parks and squares, in rented halls,
theaters, and other public spaces.
Equipped with tracts, booklets,
magazines, and books,
thousands of volunteers participated
in special preaching
and literature distribution campaigns.
These special campaigns made it possible
to cover large areas
with the Kingdom message quickly,
even in the face of opposition.
Street work,
information marches,
and bicycle parades
boldly brought the Kingdom message
directly before the eyes of the public.
Marches ranged in size
from just a few publishers
to about 1,000 publishers.
Streams of Kingdom publishers
made their way through the business districts
of large cities.
They wore placards bearing a slogan,
carried signs,
or distributed handbills
with the title of the featured talk
at a public meeting.
While radio broadcasts
and information marches
were an efficient way
of reaching mass audiences,
was it the most effective way?
Our primary method of preaching,
the personal door-to-door ministry,
has proved over time
to be the most effective method
of advertising the Kingdom.
But was preaching all that was needed?
It became apparent that teaching others
‘to observe all the things Jesus commanded’
would require training.
Kingdom evangelizers needed to be trained
to use the Bible effectively
and to study it with interested ones.
So at the “Call to Action” Assembly in 1943,
a new congregation meeting
was announced and demonstrated.
It was called
the Course in Theocratic Ministry,
and it accompanied
the weekly Service Meeting.
Soon, textbooks were released
to help our brothers
cultivate their teaching skills.
The books Theocratic Aid  published in 1945
provided clear guidance
for improved public speaking,
effective door-to-door witnessing,
making meaningful return visits,
and conducting progressive Bible studies,
while Equipped for Every Good Work
released in 1946
laid a solid foundation of Bible truth
through an in-depth
book-by-book examination of God’s Word.
Preachers were learning to become teachers.
Such high-quality training
equipped more to join
the ranks of Kingdom proclaimers.
And for those who were already active,
training allowed them
to expand their participation.
The ranks of Kingdom publishers swelled.
Around the same time,
the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead
began training Kingdom proclaimers
to take up missionary work in lands
where there were few, if any,
Kingdom publishers.
In the years since,
thousands of trained missionaries
have ‘advertised the King and his Kingdom’
to the ends of the earth.
Additionally, the teaching tools
provided by the faithful slave
have steadily adapted to changing needs.
Study publications such as “Let God Be True,”
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life,
and now,
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course
have proved to be
extremely effective teaching tools.
Huge international conventions
with record-breaking attendances
have generated global headlines
advertising Jehovah’s organization.
Films, DVDs, and JW Broadcasting videos
have helped
prospective subjects of the Kingdom
visualize the realities of that Kingdom.
Our Special Metropolitan Witnessing
and Public Witnessing carts
continue to draw attention to the Kingdom.
JW.ORG has played a vital role
in reaching millions
with the Kingdom proclamation
in over 1,000 languages.
How true are the words of Melvin Sargent,
one of many faithful brothers
who experienced much of this history!
Those of us inside the Lord’s organization
have tried, in every way possible,
to turn [the world’s] attention
to the message of life.
We have used slogans,
full-page advertisements,
radio, sound cars,
portable phonographs, gigantic conventions,
parades of information-walkers
carrying signs,
and a growing army
of house-to-house ministers.
This brief report
on the past 100 years of Kingdom preaching
merely scratches the surface
of what’s contained
in the new special exhibit
at the world headquarters museum
in Warwick, New York.
It’s entitled
ADVERTISE, ADVERTISE, ADVERTISE
—100 YEARS OF ADVERTISING THE KINGDOM.
When visits become possible,
please come
and see this informative
and motivating display.
How thrilling it is that,
alongside our brothers and sisters
of the past 100 years,
we have shared together
in fulfilling Jesus’ prophecy
that “this good news of the Kingdom
will be preached in all the inhabited earth”!
May this new special exhibit energize you
to continue using every means possible
to “advertise, advertise, advertise,
the King and his Kingdom”!
Well, that video was just the ticket
—wasn’t it?—
because we’re resuming
our door-to-door ministry now,
and so this gets us all enthusiastic,
ready to go in service.
I’m sure you’re all ready
to go in service now.
But don’t leave just yet,
because we have one final talk.
Brother Lett
—Brother Lett always has
something interesting to tell us.
No pressure, Steve.
And he’s got a very intriguing theme:
“Why Must All Kiss God’s Son?”
In four of his letters,
the apostle Paul encouraged fellow Christians
to “greet one another with a holy kiss.”
Similarly, Peter used the expression
“greet one another with a kiss of love.”
Now, why was that encouragement given?
Because giving a kiss
was a token of affection, honor, or peace.
Well, in a similar vein,
notice what Jehovah commands us to do
in Psalm 2, please.
Go to the second Psalm,
and let’s read verse 12.
Jehovah says: “Honor
“[or, if you look at the footnote,
literally, “Kiss”
“—kiss] the son,
“or God will become indignant
“and you will perish from the way,
for His [Jehovah’s] anger flares up quickly.”
You notice that Jehovah
doesn’t present this as an option, does he?
He didn’t say,
‘I recommend, or suggest, you kiss my son.’
It’s actually presented as a decree
—a powerful statement indeed.
And Jehovah takes it very personally
whether we warmly, affectionately
welcome his Son or not, see?
Those who do not do so
—do not kiss the Son
and warmly welcome him—
will perish as a result of Jehovah’s anger.
Or, put another way,
such ones ‘will meet God.’
Now, let’s talk
about this just for a little bit.
The Israelites,
because they were so disobedient,
were warned by Jehovah
through Amos the prophet
at Amos 4:12:
“Get ready to meet your God.”
Now, that expression reminds me
of when I was a young teenager
growing up
in the southern part of the United States.
Along the highways, we would
often see billboards, religious billboards.
And a common sign read:
“Are you ready to meet God?”
And it was supposed
to be based on Amos 4:12.
Now, we asked, and it was explained
to us that the meaning was,
“Are you ready to go to heaven,
“meet God face-to-face,
and thereafter live in heaven?”
The word “meet”
was being used with a favorable connotation.
But as we indicated,
that’s not the meaning of Amos 4:12
—not to get ready to introduce yourself
to God in a friendly way—
far from it.
Jehovah through Amos
was warning those disobedient Israelites
that they were going to meet God
by means of a head-on collision.
It was going to be similar
to a little ant walking on a train rail,
walking south and being met
by a locomotive coming north.
That’s what the Israelites would experience.
And, sure enough,
as Jehovah warned some years later,
the Israelites “met God”
when they received his adverse judgment
when Assyria conquered and devastated them.
But now, here’s a question:
What get-ready-to-meet-your-God message
is being sounded by God’s people today?
Well, it’s true that we sound
“the good news of the Kingdom.”
But we also sound
a warning message, don’t we?
We warn that all who do not take
a stand with Jehovah
and walk with him
but continue to walk in opposition
will meet him in a head-on collision.
But here’s another question:
What will happen in the near future
(and we’ve learned
during the great tribulation)
to the tone
—the tenor—
of our get-ready-to-meet-your-God
warning message?
Well, for the answer,
let’s go to Revelation chapter 16
—Revelation chapter 16.
And, please, let’s read verse 21:
“Then great hailstones,
“each about the weight of a talent,
“fell from heaven on the people,
“and the people blasphemed God
“because of the plague of hail,
for the plague was unusually great.”
Well, our publications have explained
that, of course, right now
we take the “soft” waters of truth to people,
encouraging them to turn to Jehovah.
But soon during the great tribulation,
the tone, the tenor, will turn “hard.”
It will announce the imminent end
of Satan’s entire wicked system.
The soft waters of truth will congeal
to become
the hard-hitting hailstones of truth.
And this message will be so powerful
that, as indicated
there in that scripture we read,
the people will blaspheme God.
They will be very upset.
They will be very disturbed.
And it’s likened to a great hailstone,
with every hailstone
(a great hailstorm,
I should say, with every hailstone)
weighing about a talent.
Now, the Revelation Climax  book said
that if the apostle John
had in mind the Greek talent,
that would mean each hailstone
would weigh about 45 pounds (20 kg).
Some years ago, interestingly,
there was a little article, or little account,
in The Watchtower  about egg-sized hail
falling in China,
killing 25 people
and wounding 200 additional people.
Now, think about it.
If hailstones
weighing only ounces could do that,
what about 45-pound hailstones
(and especially
if you factor in how fast they fall)?
Experts say a large hailstone
can fall at speeds
faster than 100 miles an hour (160 km/hr).
And interestingly, not long ago
The Watchtower  made
the comment that it could well be
that our hailstone message
that we’re commissioned to give
will be what induces Gog of Magog
to make his all-out attack
against Jehovah’s people
with the intention
of wiping them from the earth.
And, of course,
we know the attack of Gog is the event
that will enrage Jehovah
and move him to bring on
the rescue operation of Armageddon.
But right now we’re still
in the kiss-God’s-Son invitation time period.
We’re happy about that, right?
But don’t get too comfortable
with that message either.
We entreat honesthearted ones
to honor God’s Son
—to warmly welcome him
as earth’s new ruler.
And we do this urgently
—don’t we?—
during the time before that hard-hitting,
get-ready-to-meet-your-God
time period arrives.
But now, here’s a very important question:
Are we motivated
to kiss God’s Son only because we don’t want
to experience the adverse consequences
of not doing so?
No, our main motivator is love, isn’t it?
We love Jehovah,
and we love his dear Son,
and we long for him to be earth’s new ruler.
That love is what
mainly motivates us to do so,
to kiss—welcome—God’s Son.
And, of course, we want to help
honesthearted ones as we teach them
to likewise kiss God’s Son
because they are motivated by love.
But Jesus is Jehovah’s choice, isn’t he?
Jehovah has selected him
and has installed him as King of the Kingdom,
and he will be the absolute best ruler
that humans could ever have.
Why?
What will make Jesus the very best ruler?
Well, one thing:
He will have superhuman abilities,
and he will demonstrate and will have these
during his Thousand Year Reign.
It will make him a wonderful,
very loving ruler.
In fact, let’s identify
six superhuman abilities
that Jesus will possess and demonstrate
during his wonderful Thousand Year Reign.
And to identify each
of these six superhuman abilities,
we’re going to use a miracle
that Jesus performed here on the earth,
because we know
the earthly miracles portend, or foreshadow,
even greater miracles
during his time as Messianic King.
Now turn, please, to Mark chapter 4,
and let’s identify
superhuman ability number one.
Mark 4:37 says:
“Now a great violent windstorm broke out,
“and the waves kept crashing into the boat,
“so that the boat was close to being swamped.
“But he [Jesus] was in the stern,
“sleeping on the pillow.
“So they woke him up and said to him:
“‘Teacher, do you not care
that we are about to perish?’
“With that he got up and rebuked the wind
“and said to the sea:
“‘Hush! Be quiet!’
And the wind abated,
and a great calm set in.”
Now, did you notice that that windstorm
is described with a double adjective
—“great violent windstorm”—
indicating its ferocity?
But with three simple words
—“Hush! Be quiet!”—
Jesus completely calmed both wind and sea.
But now, what does that miracle
portend for the future?
Well, as Messianic King,
Jesus will have the power
to command and control the wind, the sea
—actually, all forces of nature—
to mankind’s benefit.
Under Kingdom rule,
there will be no destructive tsunamis,
hurricanes, tornadoes, floods,
earthquakes, etcetera, etcetera.
But now, let’s identify
superhuman ability number two.
And to do this,
just think about the account, if you will,
in Matthew chapter 14.
If you recall, with just five loaves of bread
and two little fish,
Jesus fed a crowd,
likely of over 10,000 people
if you factor in the women and children.
And every one of them
ate to complete satisfaction.
Why, they even “[gathered] up
12 baskets full of fragments”
as leftovers.
Well, what do we learn from this miracle?
Jesus, as Messianic King,
will exercise authority
over the organic elements
in food and vegetation,
ensuring that no one
under his rule ever goes hungry.
It is estimated that right now
more than 800 million people
go to bed at night hungry.
That number will be reduced to zero
under Kingdom rule.
No one will have to go
to bed hungry at night.
Psalm 72:16 says:
“There will be an abundance
of grain on the earth;
on the top of the mountains
it will overflow.”
And it won’t be just basics.
Isaiah 25:6 says:
“Jehovah of armies
will make for all the peoples
“[that means nobody is left out
—for all the peoples]
“a banquet of rich dishes,
a banquet of fine wine, . . . filtered wine.”
Now, we’re not talking about Ripple
or Thunderbird wine here.
We’re talking about fine wine,
like Jesus made
at that wedding feast in Cana.
But now, let’s identify
superhuman ability number three.
Go, please, to Matthew chapter 15
—Matthew 15—
and let’s read,
please, verse number 30:
“Then large crowds approached him,
“bringing along people who were lame,
“maimed, blind, speechless, and many others,
“and they laid them at his feet,
and he cured them.”
Now, this was amazing, wasn’t it?
But what did these healing miracles portend
for Jesus as Messianic King?
Well, he will have the power
and the authority to heal
all sicknesses and maladies.
See, any sickness, any malady,
he will heal under Kingdom rule,
as promised at Isaiah 33:24:
“No resident [not one]
will say: ‘I am sick.’”
In fact, Jesus will even have the power
to put the human aging process
into reverse with ones becoming
young physically.
Do you recall this video clip?
It was shown at a convention
some years ago.
And we’re not seeing in this
portion of this video a fantasy.
We’re looking at reality.
In fact, one brother said:
“Can you imagine getting up in the morning?
“You put your glasses on,
and you can’t see anything!
“Everything is blurry.
You take them off,
and now you can see beautifully!”
Not fantasy—we’re talking about reality
in Jehovah’s new world.
But now let’s identify
superhuman ability number four.
And to do this, just think, if you will,
of the account in Mark chapter 5.
If you recall, very sadly
—heart-wrenchingly—
a little 12-year-old girl had died.
But what did Jesus do?
The account tells us
he took her hand and said:
“Little girl, I say to you, get up!”
That girl who had been dead immediately rose
and began walking.
Well, what future accomplishment
is signified by this miracle?
Well, Jesus and his 144,000 associate kings
will have the power
to completely empty the grave,
the common grave of dead mankind,
by means of the resurrection.
And then, according to Revelation 20:14,
the empty “Grave”
will be thrown
into the symbolic “lake of fire.”
It will be abolished forever,
never again to receive another occupant.
Well, let’s isolate
superhuman ability number five
in Matthew chapter 9, please.
Turn there.
Matthew chapter 9
and let’s read beginning
in verse number 3—Matthew 9:3:
“Now certain scribes said to themselves:
“‘This fellow is blaspheming.’
“Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said:
‘Why are you thinking
wicked things in your hearts?’”
So notice that Jesus
could read hearts there as a perfect human.
What about as a Messianic King?
Even more so.
He and the 144,000
will be able to read hearts.
And that means what?
They will be able to perfectly judge mankind
with absolutely no mistakes
—amazing indeed!
Well, let’s determine one more,
a sixth superhuman,
miraculous ability that Jesus
will possess and demonstrate.
And we’re going to do this.
Let’s go to Matthew chapter 8,
just back a little bit
from where you were there
—Matthew 8:16:
“But after it became evening,
“people brought him
“many demon-possessed ones;
“and he expelled the spirits with a word,
and he cured all who were suffering.”
So notice, rather than risk a decisive test
of the power that was backing Jesus,
the demons obeyed his command
to release these people
that they were possessing.
Well, what do we learn from this?
What does this prefigure?
Jesus and the 144,000
will have the power to act
against Satan and his demons,
because Jesus even granted on the earth
his disciples that same authority, didn’t he?
They were able to expel demons.
So they will certainly have the power,
even more so,
to take action against Satan and his demons
at the end of the thousand years.
At the end
of the great tribulation (I should say),
first they will abyss them.
Then at the end of the final test,
at the end of the thousand years,
Jesus, joined by
the secondary seed of Abraham,
as promised at Genesis 3:15,
(Jesus) will crush
the ugliest head in the universe,
Satan’s head.
And he will crush
the second-ugliest heads in the universe,
the heads of the demons.
What a tremendous accomplishment
and vindication
of Jehovah’s name and sovereignty
that will be!
Well, there we have six marvelous,
miraculous, superhuman abilities
that Jesus will possess
and exercise during his reign.
Human rulers, if we think about it,
couldn’t even dream to ever possess
even one of those superhuman abilities.
But Jesus will be able to
(1) command and control the forces of nature
to the benefit of all humans;
(2) exercise authority
over food and vegetation,
ensuring that no one ever goes hungry;
(3) possess the power
to heal all sicknesses and maladies;
(4) have the capability
to completely empty the grave
by means of the resurrection;
(5) possess the ability
to perfectly judge humans
with absolutely no mistakes;
and (6) be empowered
to act against Satan and his demons.
And if you think about it, the foregoing
are only a few examples
of the superhuman royal power that Jesus
will possess as Messianic King.
No wonder he’s Jehovah’s choice!
And no wonder
Jehovah has issued the decree
that all—not optional, all— must kiss,
warmly welcome, his Son.
Now, it’s true that a kiss
can be hypocritical, can’t it?
You know, Absalom gave off, or gave out,
(I’d probably better say gave off)
many hypocritical kisses.
He was kissing everybody, wasn’t he?
Hypocritical!
We read the account of treacherous Joab,
who hypocritically kissed Amasa
just before he murdered him.
And by means of a disgusting,
hypocritical, “tender kiss,”
Judas betrayed Jesus.
But, brothers and sisters,
our “kiss of Jesus” is not hypocritical.
From the bottom of our heart
—by our conduct, by our words—
we warmly welcome
Jehovah’s choice, don’t we?
We’re so happy,
and we tell everybody about this,
that he is already installed as King
and that he will soon
be the Ruler of all the earth.
And we want to help
honesthearted ones to likewise sincerely,
affectionately, kiss—welcome—God’s Son.
We do this urgently
during the limited window of time
during this kiss-God’s-Son
invitation time period
and before the it’s-now-too-late
time period arrives,
when ones will be told:
“Get ready to meet your God.”
Of course, sadly,
as we know, the vast majority,
especially the rulers,
will adamantly continue to do so.
But we are not like them,
because for these ones,
the anger of Jehovah and Jesus
will blaze against them.
But may Jehovah richly bless you,
dear brothers and sisters,
as you continue to affectionately
and warmly welcome Jehovah’s choice
and as you work hard
to help other honesthearted ones
to do the same.
Well, that was very encouraging, wasn’t it?
And I think we can say
that Jehovah has been very good to us today.
Jehovah has given us the encouragement
that we’ve all desperately needed.
And so if you felt
encouraged by this program,
thank Jehovah for it.
And we’re also grateful
not only to the brothers
who have presented parts of the program,
but we think of the many
who worked tirelessly
behind the scenes preparing all those videos.
As I was watching all that, I was thinking
what a tremendous amount of work
must have been involved.
And yet, how can you replace a video
—the vision, the visibility of it.
It just makes so much more—
It’s much more meaningful for us all.
So we’re grateful for the brothers
who do all of this work.
Jehovah never disappoints!
Throughout this annual meeting program,
we’ve seen how he instructs us personally,
cares for us during crises,
and satisfies us with meaningful work.
How fitting it is then
that the yeartext for 2023
praises the God whose actions
and words are the essence of truth!
Before we conclude,
let’s go to Bangladesh,
a land filled with unique features.
It has the largest contiguous
mangrove forest in the world,
called the Sundarbans,
which is teeming with interesting creatures.
The plant life is amazing as well.
Bangladesh is also home to jackfruit.
This sweet, nutritious treat
is the world’s largest fruit grown on trees.
One piece of fruit can weigh over 40 pounds,
or 18 kilograms!
Three rivers—the Jamuna,
the Padma, and the Meghna—
combine to form
the world’s largest river delta.
Here along the bay
lies much of the country’s population,
who depend on its
rich resources for survival.
Spiritually speaking,
the land is also full of potential.
Bengali is the seventh
most spoken language in the world.
There’s a ratio of more
than half a million people
to one publisher.
Among those answering
the call to preach are zealous young ones.
They skillfully use the Bible
to show how it promises relief.
They put to full use
the recently released Bengali edition
of the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
These young ones also love
to encourage their brothers and sisters
with song and dance
and drawings of Jehovah’s creation,
such as the native Bengal tiger.
It’s wonderful when a congregation
that’s so diverse in age, ethnicity,
and background can worship,
eat, and play together.
The Shahjadpur Congregation
is just such a group,
and its 69 publishers warmly say to you all,
“Amra apnader bhalobashi,”
which means “We love you.”
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!